---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Javascript Newbie
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-01-20
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Java
  - Learning
---

I’m a complete newbie in Javascript, but I’m familiar with C-program and Java. I learned C-program in EE 160 and am doing it again for ICS 212, while I learned Java from ICS 111 and 211. In some ways, Javascript is similar to both of those languages. But there are also differences. I found it weird that I have to use three equal signs instead of two. I’m not really sure what defines a “good” or “bad” programming language. I also don’t know enough about what defines software engineering to provide an insight from that perspective.

Athletic software engineering makes me feel pressured to complete an assignment in a short amount of time. Being pressured to complete something “faster” just slows me down. Working under pressure will be something that I’ll have to get used to in this class. Practice WODs are useful because they give us something to practice with. But oftentimes, I find that it makes me nervous because I feel that I don’t know enough. But with more practice and studying, I’ll eventually get used to it. 

I’m looking forward to getting to know more about this programming language. Right now, it is beating me up but by the end of semester, I hope that it’ll be my friend. Same with athletic software engineering. I shouldn’t feel bad for not being good at these in the beginning because this is a learning process. I have to let go of the need to be good at everything in the beginning and to stick to it through the end.
