---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Coding for a Better Tomorrow
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2021-01-21
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

## Am I born for computers or were computers invented for me?

My interest in Software Engineering stems from being a digital native. Something about computers and the Internet fascinates me. In first grade, my school offered computer classes to help us familiarize how to use the machine. Of course, class time was not enough time for me. My parents had to drag me home, crying, as I begged to stay in school to be able to use the computers a little bit longer. My mom promised to buy a computer instead.

## Half of the time spent for blogging was coding the blog's template

When I immigrated to Hawaiʻi in my pre-teen years, my younger brother and I were always stuck at home alone since our parents were always at work during waking hours and we weren’t allowed to go anywhere after school. I spent most of my time surfing on the Internet and actively engaging with various online communities. I got interested in code when I was on Tumblr. The template of one’s Tumblr blog defined its aesthetic. Like most people, I didn’t make my own templates. We just copied and pasted them and made sure to leave the source of the code in the credits. Not only that, we had to customize them. We added widgets like a music player at the bottom of the page that contains a playlist of one’s favorite songs. Because of that, I was able to teach myself the basics of HTML, but I always wished I'd gotten around learning CSS.

## Me and my many many interests

When I was in high school, I knew I wanted to do something in technology but I felt discouraged because I went to an underfunded high school that didn’t even have a computer science class. I sought out other fields and I found that I was passionate about my communities. I was passionate about Filipino history and culture and my neighborhood Kalihi. I was passionate about learning about the systems that marginalized my communities in the first place. 

When I started my college career, the people that knew me in high school were shocked to hear that I wasn’t pursuing a degree in the humanities and instead, I was in the Computer Engineering program at UH Mānoa. I constantly went into a depressive state thinking that I was only doing it to please my parents, even though I knew it’s been something that I’ve wanted to do for a while. When I took EE 160, Programming for Engineers, in my second semester freshman year, I found that I actually enjoyed coding, even if it meant having to overcome my shame in asking for help from a senior who offered me their help for free. The summer after freshman year, I realized that I felt that the Engineering program at UH Mānoa would have restricted me from exploring my many interests, which is why I entered the Information & Computer Sciences department. Majoring in Computer Science allowed me to have the time and space to pursue Ethnic Studies as my second major and minor in Ilokano, thus allowing me to flourish during my undergraduate years. Being in my second year of this program, I can say that I don't regret that decision.

## Technology for the people

I like to think that Ethnic Studies is not only a subject, but also a practice. I hope that technology can be used for the greater good of the people. I’m interested in topics such as Data Science, Web Development, and GIS, because I think that some way or another, I’ll figure out a way to relate with humanities. I took a class called Digital Ethnic Studies that focuses on the topics such as digital humanities, who owns our data, racist AIs, etc., which sparked my interest. I hope that one day I get to work with materials surrounding those topics. I also am interested in creating culture-based projects like a translator for my native language Ilokano and other projects that seek to build and connect communities. 

## An exciting future

I am now starting to take a Software Engineering class. I hope that I’ll acquire meaningful skills throughout the course. I want the class to be an experience and not just for the sake of a grade. If that would be the case, reaching my dreams would be a bit more exciting.
